Summary The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Texas affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights Severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding caused significant property damage in areas of Texas on April , and ntinuing. The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Texas on May , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS, STRAIGHT-LINE WINDS, TORNADOES, AND FLOODING IN TEXAS The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Texas and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Texas are Harris, Liberty, Montgomery, Polk, San Jacinto, Trinity, and Walker Counties. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding should notify the Dallas Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the Dallas Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The Dallas Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification. FIL--TO: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER also of interest to the Chief Financial Officer) SUBJECT: Revisions to the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Inme Call Reports) and the FFIEC Report On May , , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency llectively, the agencies under the auspices of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FFIEC published the attached final regulatory reporting changes in the Federal Register. These reporting changes proposed by the agencies on September , see FIL--) and December , see FIL-- would apply to all three versions of the Call Report FFIEC , FFIEC , and FFIEC ) and to the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks FFIEC as applicable, and are subject to approval by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. In the September notice, the agencies proposed revisions to all three versions of the Call Report FFIEC , FFIEC and FFIEC ) and the Board proposed revisions, as applicable, to the FFIEC related to the Financial Acunting Standards Board’s FASB) Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses Topic ): Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures” ASU - reporting on internet website addresses of depository institution trade names, and reporting on past due loans. In the December notice, the agencies proposed revisions to all three versions of the Call Report FFIEC , FFIEC and FFIEC ) and the Board proposed revisions, as applicable, to the FFIEC related to the reporting of loans to nondepository financial institutions NDFIs) and other loans, guaranteed structured financial products, and proposed long-term debt requirements. In addition, this notice included a proposal to adopt ongoing standards for electronic signatures to mply with the Call Report signature and attestation requirement. After nsidering the mments received on these notices, the agencies are moving forward with certain proposed revisions related to replacing references to “troubled debt restructurings” with “modifications to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty” nsistent with ASU -, the reporting on the internet website addresses of depository institution trade names, and the adoption of the standards for electronic signatures. These updates to the Call Report and FFIEC report forms and instructions will be effective as of the June , , report date. The agencies are implementing revisions related to reporting of loans to NDFIs as of the December , , report date. The agencies are also adding a new Memorandum item that would identify the amounts reported as a structured financial product that are guaranteed by U.S. Government agencies or sponsored agencies, which would be effective as of the December , , report date. The agencies are ntinuing to review mment letters related to loan modifications to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty under ASU -, as well as the proposed clarification on the reporting of past due loans and proposed reporting of long-term debt requirements, for further changes to the Call Report and the FFIEC . The agencies enurage you to review the proposed regulatory reporting revisions and mment on those aspects of interest to you. You may send mments on this reporting proposal to any or all of the agencies by the methods described in the attached Federal Register notice. Comments must be submitted by June , . Redlined pies of the FFIEC , FFIEC , and FFIEC Call Report forms and the FFIEC report form showing the proposed changes and the related draft reporting instructions will be available on the FFIEC’s webpages for these reports, which can be accessed from the FFIEC’s Reporting Forms webpage. Please share this letter with individuals responsible for preparing Call Reports at your institution. For further information about the proposed Call Report changes, institutions should ntact their assigned Call Report analyst. If you do not know the analyst assigned to your institution, state member institutions should ntact their Federal Reserve District Bank, while national institutions, FDIC-supervised banks, and savings associations should ntact the FDIC’s Data Collection and Analysis Section in Washington, D.C by telephone at ) ‑FDIC ) or email to FDICInfoReqfdic.gov. Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Massachusetts affected by severe storms and flooding. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms and flooding caused significant property damage in areas of Massachusetts from September , to September , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Massachusetts on May , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms and flooding. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS AND FLOODING IN MASSACHUSETTS The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms and flooding on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Massachusetts and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Massachusetts are Bristol in PMSA , , , , ) and Worcester in PMSA , , ) Counties. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms and flooding, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by flooding should notify the New York Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms and flooding may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the New York Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The New York Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms and flooding. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Iowa affected by severe storms and tornadoes. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms and tornadoes caused significant property damage in areas of Iowa from April , to April , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Iowa on May , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms and tornadoes. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS AND TORNADOES IN IOWA The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms and tornadoes on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Iowa and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Iowa are Clarke, Harrison, Mills, Polk, Pottawattamie, Ringgold, Shelby, and Union Counties. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms and tornadoes. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms and tornadoes, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms and tornadoes. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms and tornadoes should notify the Kansas City Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms and tornadoes may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the Kansas City Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The Kansas City Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms and tornadoes. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Nebraska affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes caused significant property damage in areas of Nebraska on April , to April , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Nebraska on May , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS, STRAIGHT-LINE WINDS, AND TORNADOES IN NEBRASKA The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Nebraska and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Nebraska are Douglas and Washington Counties. Lending:The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes should notify the Kansas City Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the Kansas City Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The Kansas City Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Ohio affected by tornadoes. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Tornadoes caused significant property damage in areas of Ohio on March , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Ohio on May , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by tornadoes. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY TORNADOES IN OHIO The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of tornadoes on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Ohio and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Ohio are Auglaize, Crawford, Darke, Delaware, Hanck, Licking, Logan, Mercer, Miami, Richland, and Union Counties. Lending:The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by tornadoes. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by tornadoes, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by tornadoes. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by tornadoes should notify the Chicago Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by tornadoes may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the Chicago Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The Chicago Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by tornadoes. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: On May , , the FDIC Board of Directors approved a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking NPR) and request for mment entitled Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements, a rule to implement Section of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Dodd-Frank Act). In this NPR, the FDIC, the Office of Comptroller of the Currency OCC the National Credit Union Administration NCUA and the Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA) llectively the “Agencies” for purposes of this NPR) are re-proposing the regulatory text previously proposed in June , along with certain alternatives and questions, for public mment. The NPR would provide a nsistent set of enforceable standards and help safeguard vered financial institutions from certain types and features of incentive-based mpensation arrangements that enurage inappropriate risks by providing excessive mpensation or that uld lead to material financial loss to the institution. Statement of Applicability: This proposed rulemaking does not apply to FDIC-supervised institutions with less than billion in average total nsolidated assets. Key Details: On June , , an NPR to implement Section of the Dodd-Frank Act was published in the Federal Register NPR). In nsideration of the passage of time since the NPR, as well as additional supervisory experience, changes in industry practices and other developments, the Agencies are issuing this NPR and seeking additional feedback from mmenters by re-proposing the regulatory text and proposing potential alternatives for nsideration. Comments received on this NPR as well as those previously submitted on the NPR will further inform efforts to implement Section of the Dodd-Frank Act. The NPR uses a tiered approach that would apply provisions to vered financial institutions acrding to three categories of average total nsolidated assets: Level  billion or more Level  billion to billion and Level  billion to billion). For all vered institutions, the proposed rule would: Prohibit types and features of incentive-based mpensation arrangements that enurage inappropriate risks. Require adherence to basic principles for incentive-based mpensation arrangements to balance between risk and reward and establish effective risk management governance. Require appropriate board of directors or mmittee) oversight, rerdkeeping, and disclosures to the appropriate agency. For Level and Level institutions, the proposed rule would: Require the following: deferral of awards for senior executive officers SEOs) and significant risk-takers SRTs); nsideration of forfeiture or downward adjustment of awards; provide for clawback of paid awards; establishment of a board mpensation mmittee; appropriate risk management and ntrol framework; additional rerdkeeping requirements for SEOs and SRTs; and policies and procedures to ensure rule mpliance. Prohibit or limit: excessive award leveraging; using only relative peer) performance measures; use of options; volume-driven incentive-based mpensation without regard to transaction quality or mpliance with sound risk management; and the purchasing of hedging instruments by an institution on behalf of a vered person to offset any decrease in the value of incentive-based mpensation. Potential Alternatives to Regulatory Provisions: The NPR is also seeking feedback on potential alternatives to the proposal’s regulatory provisions including, but not limited to, shortening the mpliance date; establishing a two-level structure for vered institutions; simplifying the SRT definition; and requiring performance measures and targets be established before the performance period. Comments on potential alternatives are also being sought on topics such as options; requiring, instead of requiring nsideration of, forfeiture and downward adjustments; clawback; hedging; volume driven incentive-based mpensation; and risk management and ntrol requirements for Level and Level vered institutions. Until this proposed rulemaking is published in the Federal Register, mments on the proposed rule and alternatives in the preamble can be sent to IncentiveCompProposalfdic.gov and will be posted on the FDIC website at ://www.fdic.gov/regulations/laws/publicmments/. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Board) has not acted to join this NPR. Rulemaking to implement section is on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s SEC) rulemaking agenda. The NPR was issued by the FDIC, the OCC, the NCUA, the FHFA, SEC and the Board. See Federal Register June , ).Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Oklahoma affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding caused significant property damage in areas of Oklahoma on April , and ntinuing. The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Oklahoma on April , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS, STRAIGHT-LINE WINDS, TORNADOES, AND FLOODING IN OKLAHOMA The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Oklahoma and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Oklahoma are Hughes, Love, and Murray Counties. Lending:The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding should notify the Dallas Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the Dallas Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The Dallas Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms, straight-line winds, tornadoes, and flooding. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC along with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, are issuing the Third-Party Risk Management, A Guide for Community Banks Guide as a resource to help mmunity banks in developing and implementing their third-party risk management programs, policies, and practices. Statement of Applicability: This Financial Institution Letter FIL) applies to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Key Details: Community banks engage with third parties to help the banks mpete in and respond to an evolving financial services landscape. Third-party relationships can offer mmunity banks access to new technologies, risk management tools, human capital, delivery channels, products, services, and markets. A mmunity bank’s reliance on third parties, however, reduces its direct operational ntrol over activities and may introduce new risks or increase existing risks, including but not limited to, operational, mpliance, financial, and strategic risks. A mmunity bank’s use of third parties does not diminish or remove a bank’s responsibility to perform all activities in a safe and sound manner, in mpliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to nsumer protection and security of customer information. This Guide is intended as a resource for mmunity banks to nsider when developing third-party risk management programs, policies, and practices by providing potential nsiderations and examples for each stage of the third-party risk management life cycle. The Guide is not a substitute for the Interagency Guidance on Third-Party Relationships: Risk Management. This Guide is not a checklist and does not prescribe specific risk management practices or establish any safe harbors for mpliance with laws or regulations.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s FDIC) Office of the Ombudsman today published a report highlighting its activities and the services provided to stakeholders during . The role of FDIC Ombudsman was created by Congressional action in to provide an informal alternative to the regulatory appeals process. The Office of the Ombudsman operates independent of the agency’s divisions that issue supervisory determinations, and reports to the office of the FDIC Chairman. The Office of the Ombudsman serves as an impartial liaison to facilitate effective mmunication of relevant information between parties, with a focus on providing a fair and transparent resolution process. To enurage external parties to nsult an Ombudsman, the Office has safeguards that preserve the nfidentiality of those seeking its assistance. The FDIC enurages bankers and other stakeholders to use the Office of the Ombudsman as an independent, neutral, and nfidential resource for informally discussing disagreements with findings or nclusions of the agency, and for identifying strategies and options to facilitate fair outmes. The Office of the Ombudsman’s Report can be found on the FDIC’s website. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Key Details During , the Office of the Ombudsman actively engaged with stakeholders in person and through the use of virtual platforms. The acmplishments and results outlined in the Report include: Providing liaison services to facilitate productive mmunications between bankers and the FDIC; Discussing options for resolving disagreements with supervisory findings or nclusions; Engaging with stakeholders to initiate or strengthen relations with the Office; Responding to requests for information about the FDIC’s regulatory or resolution-related activities. The Report also shares: Notable situations that prompted bankers to ntact the Office. Common themes of candid stakeholder feedback provided to Regional Ombudsmen. To share your thoughts and feedback, or if you need the Office’s nfidential, neutral, independent, and informal service, please ntact your Regional Ombudsman or submit an anonymous inquiry using the Ombudsman’s online form. Summary: The attached materials pertain to the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Inme Call Report) for the March , , report date and provide guidance on certain reporting issues. This Financial Institution Letter and the attached Supplemental Instructions should be shared with the individual(s) responsible for preparing the Call Report at your institution. Please plan to mplete as early as possible the preparation, editing, and review of your institution’s Call Report data and the submission of these data to the agencies’ Central Data Repository CDR). Starting your preparation early will help you identify and resolve any edit exceptions before the submission deadline. If you later find that certain information needs to be revised, please make the appropriate changes to your Call Report data and promptly submit the revised data file to the CDR. Except for certain institutions with foreign offices, your mpleted Call Report must be received by Tuesday, April , , in acrdance with the filing requirements discussed below. An institution with more than one foreign office, other than a “shell” branch or an International Banking Facility, is permitted an additional five calendar days to submit its Call Report data. Such an institution must electronically file its data to the CDR no later than Sunday, May , . There are no new data items that take effect this quarter in the FFIEC , FFIEC or FFIEC Call Report forms. The agencies are implementing revisions to several Call Report schedules this quarter as Financial Acunting Standards Board’s Acunting Standards Update No. -, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses Topic ): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments" ASU -) is effective for all institutions. These revisions that also included similar revisions to the Regulatory Capital Reporting for Institutions Subject to the Advanced Capital Adequacy Framework FFIEC ) and certain other regulatory reports were approved in March following publication see FR , February , ). As mmunicated previously in June , the agencies have also disntinued the use of the Call Report binder format filing instructions see FR , June , ). Institutions should refer to the attached Supplemental Instructions for March , for additional guidance on certain reporting issues. The Supplemental Instructions also include an entry on the FDIC’s special assessment final rule that bemes effective April , . All institutions have adopted ASU -, “Financial Instruments Credit Losses Topic ): Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures,” as of the December , , report date. Institutions should ntinue referring to the topic “Acunting for Loan Modifications to Borrowers Experiencing Financial Difficulty” in the Supplemental Instructions that provides guidance on how an institution should report its loan modifications to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty in the Call Report. The Call Report forms for March , , are available for printing and downloading from the FFIEC’s Reporting Forms webpage for each version of the Call Report. These forms can also be accessed from the FDIC’s Bank Financial Reports webpage. Updates to the Call Report instructions for March will be available soon on these webpages. Each institution must file its March , , Call Report data in one of two ways: By using mputer software to prepare and edit its report data and then electronically submitting the data directly to the CDR; or By mpleting its report in paper form and arranging with a software vendor or another party to nvert the paper report to the electronic format that can be processed by the CDR. The software vendor or other party then must electronically submit the institution’s Call Report data file to the CDR. Electronic submission of first quarter Call Report data will be nsidered timely if the data are received by the CDR no later than Tuesday, April , , or Sunday, May , , as applicable, and pass FFIEC-published criteria for validity and quality edits or, where necessary, ntain explanations for any quality edits that are not passed. The CDR Help Desk is available from : a.m. until : p.m Eastern Time, Monday through Friday, to provide assistance with user acunts, passwords, and other CDR system-related issues. The CDR Help Desk can be reached by telephone at ) CDR‑, by fax at ) ‑, or by email at cdr.helpcdr.ffiec.gov. For all other Call Report issues, institutions should ntact their assigned Call Report analyst. If you do not know the analyst assigned to your institution, state member institutions should ntact their Federal Reserve District Bank; national institutions, FDIC‑supervised banks, and savings associations should ntact the FDIC’s Data Collection and Analysis Section in Washington, D.C by telephone at ) ‑FDIC ). Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-insured financial institutions.Summary: The FDIC is issuing this advisory to reemphasize the requirements under the Customer Identification Program CIP) Rule as it relates to llecting identifying information from customers. This advisory reminds institutions of the information required to be llected from the customer prior to acunt opening. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: In , the final CIP Rule was issued for banks, savings associations, credit unions, and certain non-federally regulated banks. The CIP Rule requires a bank to implement a program that includes risk-based verification procedures that enable the bank to form a reasonable belief that it knows the true identity of its customers. These requirements exist regardless of whether the bank establishes this relationship directly with the customer or through an intermediary. These procedures must include llecting, at a minimum, the customer’s name, date of birth for an individual address, and identification number. A bank is required to llect the taxpayer identification number TIN) from a customer that is a U.S. person prior to acunt opening or another approved identification from a non-U.S. person. This applies to all acunts with the exception of credit card acunts. To gain an understanding of the issues related to the TIN llection, FinCEN is seeking information and mment from banks and interested parties regarding the CIP Rule’s TIN llection requirement through a Request for Information: Customer Identification Program Rule Taxpayer Identification Number Collection Requirement.Summary: The FDIC’s Consumer Compliance Supervisory Highlights is a publication that features articles of interest to the banking industry. Its purpose is to enhance transparency regarding the FDIC’s nsumer mpliance supervisory activities and provide a high-level overview of nsumer mpliance issues identified in through the FDIC’s supervision of state non-member banks and thrifts. Topics include supervisory observations related to nsumer protection laws, examples of practices that may be useful to institutions in mitigating risks, regulatory developments, nsumer mpliance resources, and an overview of nsumer mplaint trends. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: This FDIC publication provides an overview of nsumer mpliance issues identified through the FDIC’s supervision of state non-member banks and thrifts in . This edition of the FDIC’s Consumer Compliance Supervisory Highlights includes: A description of the most frequently cited violations and other nsumer mpliance examination observations; Information on regulatory developments; A summary of nsumer mpliance resources and information available to financial institutions; and An overview of nsumer mplaint trends.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Rhode Island affected by severe storms and flooding. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms and flooding caused significant property damage in areas of Rhode Island from December , to December , and again from January , to January , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Rhode Island on March , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms and flooding. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS AND FLOODING IN RHODE ISLAND The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms and flooding on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Rhode Island and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Rhode Island are Kent, Providence in PMSA , and Washington in PMSA , ) Counties. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by the severe storms and flooding, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms and flooding should notify the New York Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by the severe storms and flooding may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the New York Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The New York Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by the severe storms and flooding. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Maine affected by severe storms and flooding. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Severe storms and flooding caused significant property damage in areas of Maine from January , to January , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Maine on March , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by severe storms and flooding. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY SEVERE STORMS AND FLOODING IN MAINE The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of severe storms and flooding on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Maine and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected areas in Maine are Cumberland, Hanck, Knox, Linln, Sagadahoc, Waldo, Washington, and York in MSA , ) Counties. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by severe storms and flooding, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by severe storms and flooding. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by severe storms and flooding should notify the New York Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by severe storms and flooding may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the New York Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The New York Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by severe storms and flooding. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: On March , , the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency the Agencies issued an interim final rule and a final rule together, supplemental rulemaking) related to the Agencies’ Community Reinvestment Act CRA) final rule issued on October , , and published in the Federal Register on February , FR ) CRA Final Rule). Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: The supplemental rulemaking includes an interim final rule and a technical rrections final rule. Interim Final Rule: The interim final rule makes the following change: Revises the applicability date of two provisions in the CRA Final Rule, the facility-based assessment areas provision and the ntent and availability of public file provision from April , , to January , . The revisions will, among other things, make the provisions applicable ncurrent with the definition of key terms, as well as reduce uncertainty and ensure nsistency of the requirements, applicable as of January , . Technical Corrections Final Rule: The final rule makes the following technical rrections: A rrection to the applicability date of the public notice provision in the CRA Final Rule from April , , to January , to clarify the requirement; A rrection to the asset-size thresholds in the FDIC’s and Federal Reserve’s appendix G of the CRA Final Rule, which ntains the CRA regulations in effect on March , , to reflect updated asset-size thresholds since issuance of the CRA Final Rule; Corrections to the Agencies’ agency-specific amendments in the CRA Final Rule to: ) add a missing nforming amendment to the strategic plan provision; and ) rrect an otherwise inmplete cross reference of an amendatory instruction for appendix B; and Corrections to the Agencies’ CRA Sunshine regulations to update cross references to the Agencies’ CRA regulations that will be out of date on April , , when the CRA Final Rule bemes effective. The interim final rule and technical rrections final rule are effective on April , . The Agencies are requesting mments on the interim final rule for a period of days after its publication in the Federal Register.Summary: The FDIC Board of Directors has proposed revisions to the Statement of Policy revised SOP) on Bank Merger Transactions. The revised SOP is being published in the Federal Register for public mment. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-insured financial institutions. Highlights: The revised SOP: Updates, strengthens, and clarifies the FDIC's policies and expectations related to the evaluation of bank merger transactions. Reflects legislative and other developments that have occurred since the current SOP was last updated in February . Addresses evaluative nsiderations for each statutory factor, including the risk to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. Reflects nsideration of mment letters submitted in response to the FDIC's March Request for Information and Comment on Rules, Regulations, Guidance, and Statements of Policy Regarding Bank Merger Transactions. Written mments must be received on or before days after publication in Federal Register. In a separate Federal Register notice, the FDIC, as part of its obligations under the Paperwork Reduction Act of , invites mment on the renewal of the existing information llected in the FDIC Supplement to the Interagency Bank Merger Act application form OMB Control No. -).Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in an area of Alaska affected by a severe storm, landslides, and mudslides. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: A severe storm, landslides, and mudslides caused significant property damage in an area of Alaska on November , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for a selected area affected in Alaska on March , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov. The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by a severe storm, landslides, and mudslides. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY A SEVERE STORM, LANDSLIDES, AND MUDSLIDES IN ALASKA The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of a severe storm, landslides, and mudslides on customers and operations of financial institutions in the affected area of Alaska and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected area to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected area in Alaska is Sealaska Native Regional Corporation). Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer. Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides should notify the San Francis Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the San Francis Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The San Francis Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by the severe storm, landslides, and mudslides. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.Summary: The FDIC is providing flexibility relative to appraisal requirements for real estate-related transactions in Maui County due to the Hawaii wildfires. The flexibilities may be exercised by any institution underwriting a real estate-related transaction in Maui County. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: The FDIC is facilitating the revery process in Maui County, which was declared to be a major disaster, by temporarily easing appraisal requirements for real estate-related financial transactions under the Financial Institutions Reform, Revery, and Enforcement Act. The exception expires three years after the date Maui County was declared a major disaster. To qualify for the exception, an institution must determine that: The transaction involves real property located in the area designated as adversely affected by the major disaster. There is a binding mmitment to fund the transaction that was entered into on or after August , , but no later than August , . The value of the real property supports the institution’s decision to enter into the transaction. Transactions for which the financial institution relies on the appraisal exception must ntinue to be subject to review by management. The FDIC will review an institution’s reliance on the appraisal exception during regularly scheduled examinations.Summary: The FDIC has announced a series of steps intended to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions and facilitate revery in areas of Washington affected by wildfires. Statement of Applicability: The ntents of, and material referenced in, this FIL apply to all FDIC-supervised financial institutions. Highlights: Wildfires caused significant property damage in areas of Washington from August , to August , . The Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA) declared a federal disaster for selected areas affected in Washington on February , . FEMA may make additional designations after damage assessments are mpleted in the affected areas. A current list of designated areas is available at www.fema.gov The FDIC is enuraging banks to work nstructively with borrowers experiencing difficulties beyond their ntrol because of damage caused by wildfires. Banks that extend repayment terms, restructure existing loans, or ease terms for new loans in a manner nsistent with sound banking practices can ntribute to the health of the local mmunity and serve the long-term interests of the lending institution. Banks may receive favorable Community Reinvestment Act nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, and services in support of disaster revery. The FDIC also will nsider regulatory relief from certain filing and publishing requirements. February , FIL-- SUPERVISORY PRACTICES REGARDING DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND BORROWERS AFFECTED BY WILDFIRES IN WASHINGTON The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC) regnizes the serious impact of wildfires on customers and operations of financial institutions in affected areas of Washington and will provide regulatory assistance to institutions subject to its supervision. These initiatives will provide regulatory relief and facilitate revery. The FDIC enurages depository institutions in the affected areas to meet the financial services needs of their mmunities. The affected area in Washington is Spokane County. Lending: The FDIC enurages bankers to work nstructively with borrowers in mmunities affected by wildfires. The FDIC realizes the effects of natural disasters on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism. In supervising institutions affected by wildfires, the FDIC will nsider the unusual circumstances they face. The FDIC regnizes that efforts to work with borrowers in mmunities under stress can be nsistent with safe-and-sound banking practices as well as in the public interest. Community Reinvestment Act CRA): Financial institutions may receive CRA nsideration for mmunity development loans, investments, or services that revitalize or stabilize federally designated disaster areas in their assessment areas or in the states or regions that include their assessment areas. For additional information, institutions should review the Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding Community Reinvestment at Section (g)()(ii). For help in identifying mmunity development activities to revitalize or stabilize a disaster area, financial institutions can ntact their regional Community Affairs Officer Investments: Bankers are enuraged to monitor municipal securities and loans affected by wildfires. The FDIC realizes local government projects may be negatively affected and enurages bankers to engage in appropriate monitoring and take prudent efforts to stabilize such investments. Reporting Requirements: FDIC-supervised institutions affected by wildfires should notify the San Francis Regional Office if they expect a delay in filing Reports of Inme and Condition or other reports. The FDIC will evaluate any causes beyond the ntrol of a reporting institution when nsidering the length of an acceptable delay. Publishing Requirements: The FDIC understands the damage caused by wildfires may affect mpliance with publishing and other requirements for branch closings, relocations, and temporary facilities under various laws and regulations. Banks experiencing disaster-related difficulties in mplying with any publishing or other requirements should ntact the San Francis Regional Office. Consumer Laws: For nsumers’ principal dwelling-secured loans, Regulation Z provides nsumers an option to waive or modify the three-day rescission period when a “bona fide personal financial emergency” exists. To exercise this option, the nsumer must provide the lender with a statement describing the emergency in acrdance with the regulation. Temporary Banking Facilities: The San Francis Regional Office will expedite any request to operate temporary banking facilities by an institution whose offices have been damaged or that desires to provide more nvenient availability of services to those affected by wildfires. In most cases, a telephone notice to the FDIC will suffice initially. Institutions may submit necessary written notification later. Institutions that report modifications of existing loans in acrdance with Acunting Standards Codification ASC) Subtopic -, Receivables – Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors should evaluate those modifications individually to determine whether they represent troubled debt restructurings. For institutions that have adopted ASC Topic , Financial Instruments – Credit Losses, and Acunting Standards Update ASU) -, Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, modifications of existing loans should be evaluated individually to determine whether the modification of the existing loan is a modification to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Under both ASC Topic and ASU -, this evaluation should be based on the facts and circumstances of each borrower and modification.